Postwiki
========

This will be the wiki software that I have always wanted.  I think once its
ready, you might even feel the same way.

Under Construction
------------------

This is a work in progress and has not yet been released.  When this project is
operational, this README will be updated to reflect that.  For now, you are
looking at something between software and vaporware, or as I like to call it
"aspirationware".

Design Goals of Postwiki
------------------------

* Semantic links turn what would otherwise be purely opaque text content into
  machine-usable information.  Linking in Postwiki will support qualifiers or
  "tags" which turn ordinary links into the equivalent of RDF triples aka
  `subject->property->object`.

* Sparql or other query language support for embedding dynamic content within
  posts, so you could produce a list or table of all posts by properties or
  having certain relationships through semantic links.

* It should be very easy to programatically interact with the wiki through an
  API thus extending the value of its content and relational structures.  I
  foresee several applications that I would build when the core features are in
  place:

  * Project Management.  Use posts to define user stories and tasks.  Link them
    together and define relationships such as predecessors or dependencies.  Use
    semantic links to define properties such as status or complexity estimates.
    In the end, achieve a highly flexible and interlinked repository of
    knowledge and intent behind software projects.

  * Intentional Software Specification.  I've heard that the company
    "Intentional Software" uses something they call the "Intentional Tree" to
    essentially contain the actual information for the software they build and
    that most of the code in their projects is generated by "projections"
    starting from this tree.  Try that with a Postwiki.

  * My personal website, blog and otherwise, should be very easily
    constructable on a Postwiki.

* Markup language should be minimalistic, natural and obvious.  I am choosing
  Markdown as the basis for the wikitext with a couple simple enhancements to
  make it even easier to link to other posts in the same wiki.

Features
--------

* Getting Started
  * Create the first user for a wiki with no users
  * Creating the first post for a wiki with no posts

* Installation
  * Run locally with SQLite storage
  * Deploy for free to Heroku with 5MB MySQL storage

* Content Management
  * Create a post by visiting the post page for an unrecognized name
  * Create a post by clicking the global Create Post button
  * Edit a post by clicking the Edit button on post page
  * Rename a post by changing its first line of wikitext
  * Rename a post changes the wikitext of posts that link to it
  * Retire a post by clicking the Retire button on post page
  * Delete a post by clicking the Delete button on post page
  * Link to a post by adding a link in wikitext
  * Link to a post by adding a prefix link in wikitext

* Access Control
  * Lock an unlocked post by clicking the Lock button on post page
  * Unlock a locked post by clicking the Unlock button on post page

* User Administration
  * Create a user by clicking the Add button on User List page
  * Retire a user by clicking the Retire button on User Profile page
  * Delete a user by clicking the Delete button on User Profile page



